# Concept-level Sentiment Analysis with SenticNet and Word Embeddings

This repository is the result of a master thesis on "Concept-level Sentiment Analysis with SenticNet and Word Embeddings" (see pdf-file), making it available for reference or replication of the thesis' results.

The code in this repository can be used to analyse the sentiments expressed in short comments by predicting an associated rating.

## Installation

Install Python 3.8 or newer, (make sure it is compatible with the used tensorflow version)

```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install python3.8
```

Clone this repository:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/FelixBoltz/COLESEAN.git
```

Install the latest version of the Package Manager pip:

```
$ sudo apt-get install pip
$ python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

Install the required packages:

```
$ pip install -r COLESEAN/requirements.txt
```

## Usage

The file containing the comments and their respective ratings should be a comma-separated csv file in the same directory, with the comments in the first column and their ratings in the second one. The default file name is "comments_with_ratings" and can be adjusted in the 'Preprocessing.py' file if necessary.

The comments and ratings data base used in this thesis can be found under:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1POd78-jmL6MDthpKKOHpvbmTelzffnGm/view?usp=sharing

The pretrained word vectors for at least one of the Word Embeddings utilized in this work need to be downloaded and saved in the same directory first.
You can choose between Global Vectors (GloVe), Word2Vec and Fasttext or download more than one for comparison.

### GloVe

Pretrained GloVe vectors can be downloaded from: https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/

Make sure the file name matches 'glove_path' specified at the top of the 'Tester.py' file after unpacking the downloaded zip-file.
(The default version uses http://nlp.stanford.edu/data/glove.6B.zip)

### Word2Vec

Pretrained Word2Vec vectors can be downloaded from: https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/

Make sure the file name matches 'word2vec_path' specified on top of the 'Tester.py' file.
(Direct download link https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7XkCwpI5KDYNlNUTTlSS21pQmM/edit)

### FastText

Pretrained FastText vectors can be downloaded from: https://fasttext.cc/docs/en/english-vectors.html

Make sure the file name matches 'fasttext_path' specified at the top of the 'Tester.py' file after unpacking the downloaded zip-file.
(The default version uses https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/fasttext/vectors-english/crawl-300d-2M.vec.zip)

### AffectiveSpace vectors

One of the models deployed in this work, called the Concept Vector Model, also uses word vectors generated by SenticNet's Affective Space.
You can download pretrained AffectiveSpace vectors from https://sentic.net/affectivespace-csv.zip

Make sure the file name matches 'affectivespace_path' specified at the top of the 'Tester.py' file after unpacking the downloaded zip-file.

### Specify model and Word Embedding type

You can specify which pretrained Word Embeddings you want to use by adjusting the variable "word_embedding_type" at the top of the 'Tester.py' file with the possible values: 0 (for Global Vectors), 1 (for Word2Vec) and 2 (for FastText).

In similar fashion you can alter the deployed model type, possible values: 0 (concept vector model), 1 (polarity vector model) and 2 (polarity score model).

(The default state uses 0 for both variables, so the Concept Vector Model will be deployed and will utilize pretrained GloVe vectors.)

Running 'Tester.py' will now train the selected model type on the input data, plot the training process and print the test results.

## Contributing

For questions or feedback, you can contact ucdhl@student.kit.edu